Let's start with cross-platform styling, how can we fix this, which possibilities of styling for different
platforms
do we have? There are two main approaches or two main tools we can use,
the first which is often overlooked is that we do have an index.ios and an index.android.js
file and keep in mind that these are the files which essentially start our application, in our course
project we run the same code in both,
so we start the same application but theoretically you have different starting points here and you could
go as far as launching two totally different apps for different devices or at least you can load different
layouts if you need that.
So that's one major thing you can do, in a lot of apps, you might not need that and in our course project,
I actually won't go as far but you can do that and it's not uncommon to do that,
you will have a rather big codebase then but it's not an issue because you always only build for one
of the two platforms, you ship two independent apps right,
so whilst your project might be big, the apps you ship aren't impacted by that.
So that's one thing, the different starting points,
additionally there's the platform API, an API provided by react native which offers you some tools
to detect the operating system at runtime so that you can find out on which operating system your app
is running
because if you're writing one codebase and you're not developing two totally independent apps with the
different starting points, then you've got no chance of knowing this
except for this API. I will show you how to use this of course and with that, you can easily then run
some code depending on which platform you're on,
you can render some content conditionally and simply access this in Javascript code.
So this allows you to adjust your application at runtime and output different layouts, different components,
run different code depending on the platform.
So these are the tools we have,
now let's take a closer look specifically at this platform API and let's use it in the next lectures.